.\" Copyright (C) 2024 SUSE LLC
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
.TH KSYMTYPES 1
.SH NAME
ksymtypes \- a tool to work with Linux\-kernel symtypes files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBksymtypes\fR [\fIGENERAL\-OPTION\fR...] {\fBconsolidate\fR | \fBsplit\fR | \fBcompare\fR } [\fICOMMAND\-OPTION\fR...] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBksymtypes\fR is a tool that provides functionality to work with symtypes files. These files
describe the Application Binary Interface (ABI) of the kernel and its modules. The data is produced
by \fBgenksyms\fR utilities from the kernel tree.
.PP
The tool primarily operates with sets of symtypes files as they are produced during a single build
of the Linux kernel. Each such set describes the ABI of a specific kernel and its modules. The tool
refers to this set as a "symtypes corpus".
.PP
The provided functionality is divided into integrated commands. The currently available commands are
\fBconsolidate\fR, \fBsplit\fR and \fBcompare\fR. The \fBconsolidate\fR command takes a symtypes
corpus composed of a set of symtypes files and produces its consolidated variant by merging
duplicated types. The \fBsplit\fR takes a consolidated symtypes file and divides it into individual
files. The \fBcompare\fR command shows the differences between two symtypes corpuses, which can be
either in split or consolidated form.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display global help information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH CONSOLIDATE COMMAND
\fBksymtypes\fR \fBconsolidate\fR [\fICONSOLIDATE\-OPTION\fR...] \fIPATH\fR
.PP
The \fBconsolidate\fR command reads symtypes files from the specified path, consolidates their
contents by merging duplicate types and writes the output to the specified file. The input path
should point to a directory that the command recursively searches for all symtypes files. In a
typical use case, this will be a build directory of the Linux kernel.
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information for the command and exit.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR \fINUM\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fINUM\fR
Use \fINUM\fR workers to perform the operation simultaneously.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write the result to \fIFILE\fR. This option is mandatory.
.SH SPLIT COMMAND
\fBksymtypes\fR \fBsplit\fR [\fISPLIT\-OPTION\fR...] \fIPATH\fR
.PP
The \fBsplit\fR command reads a consolidated symtypes files from the specified path and divides the
data into individual symtypes files. This operation is the opposite of the \fBconsolidate\fR
command.
.PP
Note that consolidating and then splitting symtypes data might not produce output that is exactly
the same as the original due to potential differences in the ordering of records.
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information for the command and exit.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR \fINUM\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fINUM\fR
Use \fINUM\fR workers to perform the operation simultaneously.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIDIR\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIDIR\fR
Write the result to \fIDIR\fR. This option is mandatory.
.SH COMPARE COMMAND
\fBksymtypes\fR \fBcompare\fR [\fICOMPARE\-OPTION\fR...] \fIPATH\fR \fIPATH2\fR
.PP
The \fBcompare\fR command shows the differences between two symtypes corpuses. A corpus can be
specified by a directory containing symtypes files or by a consolidated symtypes file. In a typical
use case, the first input will point to a reference consolidated symtypes corpus and the second
input will point to data from a new build of the Linux kernel.
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information for the command and exit.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR \fINUM\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fINUM\fR
Use \fINUM\fR workers to perform the operation simultaneously.
.TP
\fB\-\-filter\-symbol\-list\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Consider only symbols that match the patterns in \fIFILE\fR.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fITYPE[:FILE]\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR=\fITYPE[:FILE]\fR
Change the output format to \fITYPE\fR, or write the \fITYPE\fR-formatted output to \fIFILE\fR.
.IP
The \fITYPE\fR can be one of the following:
.RS 14
.IP \[bu] 2
\fInull\fR \(en produces no output,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIpretty\fR \(en produces human-readable output in detailed form,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIshort\fR \(en produces human-readable output in compact form,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIsymbols\fR \(en shows only the names of exported symbols that have been added, removed, or
modified,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fImod-symbols\fR \(en shows only the names of exported symbols that have been modified; any
additions or removals are omitted.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Build the Linux kernel and obtain a reference symvers and consolidated symtypes corpus:
.IP
.EX
$ cd <linux\-kernel\-directory>
$ make O=build ...
$ cp build/Module.symvers base.symvers
$ ksymtypes consolidate \-\-output=base.symtypes build/
.EE
.PP
Build a new version of the Linux kernel and compare its ABI with the previous reference:
.IP
.EX
$ cd <linux\-kernel\-directory>
$ vim ...  # edit the code
$ make O=build ...
$ ksymvers compare --format=symbols:changed-exports base.symvers build/Module.symvers
$ ksymtypes compare --filter-symbol-list=changed-exports base.symtypes build/
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 on success and 2 if an error occurs. The compare command returns 0 if there are
no differences and 1 if there are any changes.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBksymvers\fR(1), \fBsuse-kabi-tools\fR(5)
