.\" Copyright (C) 2024 SUSE LLC
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
.TH KSYMVERS 1
.SH NAME
ksymvers \- a tool to work with Linux\-kernel symvers files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBksymvers\fR [\fIGENERAL\-OPTION\fR]... { \fBcompare\fR | \fBunused\-rules\fR } [\fICOMMAND\-OPTION\fR]... ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBksymvers\fR is a tool that provides functionality to work with symvers files. These files
summarize the exported symbols of the kernel and its modules. The data is produced by the
\fBmodpost\fR utility from the kernel tree.
.PP
The tool primarily operates with a final symvers file, typically called \fIModule.symvers\fR, as it
is produced during a single build of the Linux kernel.
.PP
The provided functionality is divided into integrated commands. The currently available commands are
\fBcompare\fR and \fBunused\-rules\fR. The \fBcompare\fR command shows the differences between two
symvers files. The \fBunused\-rules\fR command takes a file with severity rules along with a set of
symvers files and reports all rules that do not match any symvers record.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display global help information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH COMPARE COMMAND
\fBksymvers\fR \fBcompare\fR [\fICOMPARE\-OPTION\fR]... \fIFILE\fR \fIFILE2\fR
.PP
The \fBcompare\fR command shows the differences between two symvers files. In a typical use case,
the first input will point to a reference symvers file and the second input will point to a symvers
file from a new build of the Linux kernel.
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information for the command and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-filter\-symbol\-list\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Consider only symbols that match the patterns in \fIFILE\fR.
.TP
\fB-r\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-rules\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Load kABI severity rules from \fIFILE\fR.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fITYPE[:FILE]\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR=\fITYPE[:FILE]\fR
Change the output format to \fITYPE\fR, or write the \fITYPE\fR-formatted output to \fIFILE\fR.
.IP
The \fITYPE\fR can be one of the following:
.RS 14
.IP \[bu] 2
\fInull\fR \(en produces no output,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIpretty\fR \(en produces human-readable output in detailed form,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIshort\fR \(en produces human-readable output in compact form,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIsymbols\fR \(en shows only the names of exported symbols that have been added, removed, or
modified,
.IP \[bu] 2
\fImod-symbols\fR \(en shows only the names of exported symbols that have been modified; any
additions or removals are omitted.
.RE
.SH UNUSED-RULES COMMAND
\fBksymvers\fR \fBunused\-rules\fR [\fIUNUSED\-RULES\-OPTION\fR]... \fIFILE\fR...
.PP
The \fBunused\-rules\fR command detects severity rules not matching any symbol records in the
specified symvers files. The rules are ordered by their appearance in the file, and the first match
takes effect.
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information for the command and exit.
.TP
\fB-r\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-rules\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Load kABI severity rules from \fIFILE\fR. This option is mandatory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 on success and 2 if an error occurs. The compare command returns 0 if there are
no differences and 1 if there are any (non-tolerated) changes.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBksymtypes\fR(1), \fBsuse-kabi-tools\fR(5)
